added page on vlan trunking (#33)
bisdn/bisdn.github.io: network_configuration/vlan_bridging_trunk.md

---
title: VLAN Bridging Trunk
parent: Network Configuration
---

# Trunk VLAN

## Introduction

> A trunk port is a simply a port that can carry more than one VLAN. We say that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A "trunk port" describes a port that can forward more than one VLAN. We say that
```

Author: Good suggestion.

the port is trunked into several VLANs. This enables us to use a single port as
an entry point for all VLANs configured on a switch, instead of one port per

> VLAN. The trunk port tags incoming packets and forwards them to their designated

Reviewer: i think a "trunk" port does not change anything about vlan tags, it just forwards tagged packets

Author: agreed

VLAN.

Conversely, an access port is the special case where a trunk port has a single

> VLAN as its Native VLAN (PVID).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
VLAN as its Native VLAN (PVID) and adds this PVID to all untagged packets it forwards.
```

## Example switch with uplink

> The example configuration below shows a switch connected to a server with two

Reviewer: this should be two servers i guess

Author: updated

access ports and a trunk port for the uplink connection.
![vlan_trunk_image](/assets/img/vlan_trunk_network.svg)

> PVID=2 and PVID=3 is configured on the access ports ``port2`` and ``port3``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PVID=2 and PVID=3 are configured on the access ports ``port2`` and ``port3``
```

specifically overwritten. Since the ports which will be connected to the bridge
have different PVIDs, the default will be set to none. Only in the case where
all ports have the same PVID, should one set the default PVID on the bridge.

```
# port2
ip link set port2 master swbridge 
ip link set port2 up

# port3
ip link set port3 master swbridge
ip link set port3 up

# port54
ip link set port54 master swbridge
ip link set port54 up
```

Finally, configuring the VLANs on the bridge member ports, and the bridge itself is done with the following commands.  The self flag is required when configuring the VLAN on the bridge interface itself.

```
bridge vlan add vid 2 dev port2 pvid
bridge vlan add vid 3 dev port3 pvid
bridge vlan add vid 2 dev port54 untagged
bridge vlan add vid 3 dev port54 untagged
bridge vlan add vid 2 dev swbridge self
bridge vlan add vid 3 dev swbridge self
```

Removing the configuration can be done with a reboot, or by deleting the bridge.
```
ip link del swbridge
```

## systemd-networkd

The configuration with systemd-networkd can be done by placing the following files,
under the /etc/systemd/networkd directory. The first line of the snippet is
the file name.

> The first two files create the bridge and adds VLAN 101 to it, completely

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first two files create the bridge and add VLAN 2 and 3 to it, completely
```

analogous to ``iproute2``

```
10-swbridge.netdev:

[NetDev]
Name=swbridge
Kind=bridge

[Bridge]
VLANFiltering=1
DefaultPVID=none
```

```
10-swbridge.network:

[Match]
Name=swbridge

[BridgeVLAN]
VLAN=2
VLAN=3
```

Attaching the access ports ``port2`` and ``port3`` is done as follows

```
20-port2.network:

[Match]
Name=port2

[Network]
Bridge=swbridge

[BridgeVLAN]
PVID=2
EgressUntagged=2
```

```
20-port3.network:

[Match]
Name=port3

[Network]
Bridge=swbridge

[BridgeVLAN]
PVID=3
EgressUntagged=3
```

> Configuring PVID for a port will enable the VLAN ID for ingress as well.

Reviewer: maybe this can link to the corresponding upstream docs section

Author: Added link to systemd.network docs
